These electric cars
used to be the latest technology
on China's roads, but now hundreds
of these models lie forgotten in the giant clearing
lost waves of new and improved Electric Cars.
The city of Hangzhou is littered
with electric vehicle graveyards.
Just like this one, China has shifted rapidly
to electric cars.
The US is worried that Chinese car makers
could flood its markets with cheap
and good electric cars posing a challenge
to the American auto industry.
Outdated EVs have been left in fields like this
across China's eastern city of Hangzhou
over the past few years.
This EV Graveyard has hundreds of electric cars
and the Chinese government has pumped money
into this sector.
There has been technology developing very quickly
in terms of the electric vehicle models.
That also means that the older vehicles become obsolete
relatively quickly.
Washington is worried that an oversupply
of Chinese EV will flood the global market
and there are already signs of a deluge of EVs in China.
In Hangzhou, we came across hundreds of new EVs
stored out in the open, many of them waiting to be sold.
China has the ability to produce roughly twice as many cars
as it sells at home each year.
The government has thrown its weight
behind the EV industry to cement China's global lead.
China has the entire ecosystem working for it.
China has battery.
China has all lithium war,
and the entire value chain is predominantly Chinese.
So eventually winner is going to be China.
That threatens companies like Tesla,
which briefly lost its crown as the top EV seller
to China's BYD last year.
There's a lot of people who out there
who think like the top 10 car companies are gonna be Tesla
followed by nine Chinese car companies.
I think they might not be wrong.
Chinese automakers have already
been shipping more electric cars
to Europe raising competition for local players.
The US doesn't want that to happen on its own shores.
To get ahead of the curve, president Biden announced
that he will impose a 100% tariff
on Chinese electric vehicles.
I'm determined that the future
of electric vehicles will be made in America
by union workers, period.
(crowd applauding)
(upbeat music)
Despite resistance from the US,
China's EV industry is growing.
The Beijing Auto Show is a chance for car makers
to show off their new EVs before they hit the market.
The sector has attracted dozens
of new players over the years trying to cash in on the boom.
One of them is Xiaomi a tech giant,
best known for its consumer gadgets.
This is the Xiaomi car.
If you place an order today, you have to wait about six
or seven months to get this car,
and this is probably one of the hottest cars
at this auto show.
Many people are lining up for 30 minutes
or more just to get into this booth to try out this car.
The company already has around 70,000 orders
in China and says it's highly automated plant.
It's able to build a car every 76 seconds.
Xiaomi SU wants to eventually ship its cars
around the world.
If anyone wants to start a conventional car company,
they need to have million, hundreds of thousands
of components to come together.
Whereas EVs, the entry barrier is significantly lower.
Components are fewer components are prepackaged,
and therefore, if you and me decide to buy
a starter EV company,
it is relatively easy, it's possible.
American automakers may also face competition
from established companies like BYD
known for mass producing affordable cars.
It wants to build a factory in Mexico,
which could help it circumvent the hefty tariffs
that the US has on Chinese vehicles.
BYD's cheapest DV model, the Seagull
is sold at around $10,000 in China.
Under the new US Tariff,
a buyer in America would end up paying at least double
that amount for the same car.
China, which firmly opposes the new tariffs,
is already the world's biggest auto exporter.
But gasoline cars still make up a big part of the export.
The US is concerned
that the exports will soon include more EVs.
You look at American automotive history,
earlier they had the GM 4 Chrysler.
Then Japanese went there.
Now it's the third wave.
Now it's Chinese knocking on their doors
and there is nothing you can do
once you say that you are open market,
you want to promote global marketplace, et cetera,
there is nothing you can do to stop them.
US automakers pioneered electric vehicles
and the technology that drives them,
but now they're playing catch up in a race
to the top with China.
(gentle music)